# Event Carried State Transfer

## Outside and Inside Data 

In his white paper \"Data on the Outside vs. Data on the Inside\", Pat
Helland classifies data according to whether it exists inside a service
boundary or outside that boundary. He calls the former Inside Data and
the latter Outside Data.

![ReferenceData](_static/images/ReferenceData.png)

Inside Data is the data inside the service boundary. No one outside the
service boundary can take a dependency on Inside Data. The service is
the single writer of this data, the system of record, and is at liberty
to change its schema. The backing store for a service holds Inside Data.

Outside Data is what the service communicates to consumers at its
boundary. It has three interesting properties:

1: **It is immutable.** Changing this data does not impact the Inside
Data of the originating service. That data; can only change from outside
by using a provided API, if any, at the boundary.

2: **It is stale.** As soon as data leaves our service it risks being
stale. Any update to the data in the originating service will not be
reflected in that data. Consider that if we use an HTTP API and GET the
state of a resource, a PUT that arrives to change that resource
immediately after will mean the copy that we have is now stale.

3: **It should be versioned.** Because the data risks being stale, we
need to version it, so that we can compare it against potentially
fresher versions. For example in HTTP we can use the If-None-Match
header with an ETag to determine if our data is stale, or if the
resource would be the same if we retrieved it again.

(It\'s worth noting that data supplied by a client as part of a command
or request sent to the service is also Outside Data.)

### Reference Data

Pat Helland uses the term Reference Data to describe the types of data
suitable for sharing as outside data.

1\. Shared Collections. This is ubiquitous data that everyone needs to
use to do work, such as a list of users, products, suppliers, brokers
etc. It is so common for code to need to join this data that it makes
sense to copy it to each service that needs it.

2\. Operand Data. Constructing requests to other microservices may
require a service to understand a set of available options such as
customer billing plans, or product categories. Operand data is where we
share the range of available options we can use to construct requests.

3\. Snapshots. Where we want to query across multiple microservices we
can end up with chatty solutions making requests to other microservices
which we then need to join in the caller. An alternative is to listen to
events so as to build an model that we can query. This is the model used
by many Big Data pipelines or by Composite View Models.

### Caching

Outside Data is amenable to caching. Indeed this is how the web scales, we 
expose Outside Data from the Origin Server that is immutable (changing the response body has no impact on
Inside Data), stale (post our GET a subsequent POST may modify the
Inside Data our response was built from, perhaps before we have even
parsed the result, and versioned (use of a Last Modified or ETag header
allows the Origin Server to version the result that it responds with).

## Event Carried State Transfer

It\'s not just HTTP APIs whose results can be cached, we could also
cache an event from the origin server, raised via AMQP, Kafka, ATOM or
some other protocol.

If the origin server raises events whenever a change occurs to the
resources it manages, then consuming services downstream can cache those
results, thus preventing the need to make a request to the origin server
to GET the current state of the entity. We can think of this as a push
based cache instead of a pull based one.

![ECST](_static/images/EventCarriedStateTransfer.png)

The name given to building a cache upstream of the origin server from
events is Event Carried State Transfer or ECST.

There are some valuable aspects to this kind of cache.

When we need to combine the state from two or more microservices to
answer a query or respond to a command, we want to avoid making requests
to that other service. This is because we temporally couple the two
services together - for our service to work, the other services must
also be available.

To solve this problem, we could work with a cache of the data we need to
enrich our service built by ECST. By listening to the microservice we
need the data from, we are able to join to the cache of data we require
without making a request to that service.

Usually a worker process listens for events from the other service and
populates our local cache from the other microservice\'s events.

Note that what we are putting in the cache is Outside Data, not Inside
Data. We do not want to couple our consuming microservice to the the
internals of the producing microservices model. We want to store the
equivalent to what we would recieve if we queried for it. This is why we
prefer ECST over simple replication of data between services which would
couple us to the details.

### Alternatives to Event Carried State Transfer

We could also meet the constraint that our service needs data from
another to respond by ensuring that the request has all the data we
require to process the event. If we think of the sender as the data
source, and our service as the data sink, we can build a pipeline where
the original request is enriched with the required data by the
microservices that own that data as a filter step.

Where no central process controls this pipeline we refer to it as
choreography.

![Choreography](_static/images/Choreography.png)

And we refer to it as orchestration when a process controls the
pipeline. Orchestration uses commands, whereas choreography uses events.
For this reason we may prefer choreography, as it has lower behavioural
coupling, unless we need confirmed rollback, or use of the reservation
pattern which are easier with a Process Manager controlling the
workflow.

![Orchestration](_static/images/Orchestration.png)

Whilst this could also work for a query, it is less common to take this
approach to populating a response due to the likely latency of the
response.


## Worked Scenario

Imagine that we are writing software for a hotel. We have identified a
number of microservices for our hotel:

![HotelMicroservices](_static/images/HotelMicroservices.png)

DirectBooking: Lets a customer reserve a room. May be a customer with an
account or a guest. Credit Card Payments: Handles taking payments from a
customer. Accounts: Holds information on account holders, including card
details Housekeeping: Prepares rooms for a guest\'s stay and provides
upkeep of the room during the stay Channel Manager: Markets our hotel
rooms via various aggregator sites.

When an account holder books a room they use the DirectBooking API to
POST a booking. DirectBooking validates the booking and then raises an
event to indicate that there has been a BookingMadeOnAccount. A number
of services listen for this message:

Channel Manager: Decrements the rooms available on aggregator sites.
Housekeeping: Schedules occupancy, cleaning of the room prior to
occupancy, during and after. Credit Card Payments: Takes a payment from
the Account holder.

How does the Credit Card Payments system take the payment, when Accounts
holds the account holders credit card details? We don\'t want to call a
credit card details HTTP directly as this moves us back to a request
driven architecture.

We have two options.

### A Pipeline

Accounts listens for DirectBookingMadeOnAccount. It adds the credit card
details to the booking and raises a
DirectBookingMadeOnAccountWithCardDetails message. It is this message
that Credit Card Payments listens to and then takes the card payment
via.

![Choreography](_static/images/Choreography.png)

### ECST

Accounts publishes an event whenever an account holder changes name,
address, or credit card details, called AccountDetailsChanged. Credit
Card Payments subscribes to this event and caches the data in its own
backing store. Then when a payment request comes in via
BookingMadeOnAccount it is able to look up the credit card details and
take the payment. When we cross-check we can see that account details
would seem to be a clear case of Shared Collection Reference Data and
suitable for use in ECST.

![ECST](_static/images/EventCarriedStateTransfer.png)

Our preference for the two may depend on the extent to which we want to
allow Credit Card Payments to take a payment even if Accounts is down,
as Credit Card Payments is working with a cache. we may decide that a
bulkhead is valuable enough to us to use ECST over choreography via a
pipeline.

## Next

See [Correctness in Brighter](BrighterOutboxSupport.html) for guidance
on how to use Brighter\'s support for the Outbox pattern to ensure
producer-consumer correctness.
